observability/tracing/tracing-common-attributes.md, before:

# Common attributes

Short list of common resource and span attributes.

## Resource Attributes


| Attribute               | Type   | Description                                               | Examples           |
|-------------------------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `cloud.provider`        | string | The name of the cloud provider.                           | `azure`            |
| `cloud.region`          | string | The geographical region where the Resource Provider runs. | `westus3`          |
| `service.name`          | string | The name of the Resource Provider service.                | `ARO HCP Frontend` |
| `service.version`       | string | The version of the Resource Provider service.             | `v1.0.0`           |

## Span Attributes

| Attribute               | Type   | Description                                                                                | Examples                               |
|-------------------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| `cs.cluster.uid`        | string | A unique identifier for the cluster, created, deleted, or modified by the current operation. | `d1082221-078a-44ca-9ec3-8e6b5a3a51ad` |
| `opid`                  | string | The operation ID which can be generated by the service or provided by the calling entity using HTTP headers. | `d1082221-078a-44ca-9ec3-8e6b5a3a51ad` |
| `aro.correlation_id`    | string | Identifier provided by the Azure Resource Manager (ARM) which helps tracing the request flow between services. Each operation has a unique Correlation ID that aids in troubleshooting issues by correlating them with other signals across multiple services.  | `d1082221-078a-44ca-9ec3-8e6b5a3a51ad` |
| `aro.client.request_id` | string | Identifier for the azure client’s request, used to track a specific request from the client through different services. | `d1082221-078a-44ca-9ec3-8e6b5a3a51ad` |
| `aro.request_id`        | string | A unique identifier generated by the Resource Provider which can be used for tracking and troubleshooting of the request across multiple services. | `d1082221-078a-44ca-9ec3-8e6b5a3a51ad` |
| `aro.api_version`       | string | The version of the provider API. | `2024-06-10-preview` |
| `cloud.resource_id`     | string | The identifier of the resource. | `8f70baf1-1f6e-46a2-a1ff-238dac1ebfb7` |
| `cloud.resource.name`   | string | The name of the resource. | `example-hcp` |
| `cloud.resource_group.name` | string | The name of the resource group. | `example-resource-group` |
| `cloud.subscription.id`     | string |  The identifier of the subscription. | `291bba3f-e0a5-47bc-a099-3bdcb2a50a05` |
| `cloud.subscription.state`  | string | The state of the subscription. | `Registered` |

Commit message:

Update documentation of tracing attributes
Signed-off-by: Simon Pasquier <spasquie@redhat.com>

observability/tracing/tracing-common-attributes.md, after:

# Common attributes

Short list of common resource and span attributes.

## Resource Attributes

These attributes are present in all emitted spans.

| Attribute               | Type   | Description                                               | Examples           |
|-------------------------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `cloud.provider`        | string | The name of the cloud provider.                           | `azure`            |
| `cloud.region`          | string | The geographical region where the Resource Provider runs. | `westus3`          |
| `host.name   `          | string | The hostname (pod) where the Resource Provider runs.      | `aro-hcp-frontend-744d758fb6-6sjj7` |
| `service.name`          | string | The name of the Resource Provider service.                | `ARO HCP Frontend` |
| `service.version`       | string | The version (commit SHA) of the Resource Provider service.| `6a84841`          |

## Span Attributes

| Attribute                 | Type   | Description                                                                                | Examples                               |
|---------------------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| `cs.cluster.id`           | string | The internal identifier of the cluster. | `2icg7oevofbqv4dic20al6ln19hrpoi4` |
| `cs.cluster.name`         | string | The internal name of cluster. | `example-hcp` |
| `cs.cluster.state`        | string | The internal state of the cluster. | `pending` |
| `opid`                    | string | The operation ID which can be generated by the service or provided by the calling entity using HTTP headers. | `d14fd9db-b6a5-4391-a03e-52615d17f1a8` |
| `aro.correlation_id`      | string | Identifier provided by the Azure Resource Manager (ARM) which helps tracing the request flow between services. Each operation has a unique Correlation ID that aids in troubleshooting issues by correlating them with other signals across multiple services.  | `c28fbd66-668e-48ee-a576-97fa7a41417e` |
| `aro.client.request_id`   | string | Identifier for the azure client’s request, used to track a specific request from the client through different services. | `c2e5de31-de7f-4cce-8020-b809e48e04a1` |
| `aro.request_id`          | string | A unique identifier generated by the Resource Provider which can be used for tracking and troubleshooting of the request across multiple services. | `b272a50f-ddb7-4f96-85cb-e4301521b3b8` |
| `aro.api_version`         | string | The version of the provider API. | `2024-06-10-preview` |
| `cloud.resource_id`       | string | The identifier of the resource. | `/subscriptions/1d3378d3-5a3f-4712-85a1-2485495dfc4b/resourceGroups/example-rg/providers/Microsoft.RedHatOpenshift/hcpOpenShiftClusters/example-hcp` |
| `aro.resource.name`       | string | The name of the resource. | `example-hcp` |
| `aro.resource_group.name` | string | The name of the resource group. | `example-rg` |
| `aro.subscription.id`     | string | The identifier of the subscription. | `291bba3f-e0a5-47bc-a099-3bdcb2a50a05` |
| `aro.subscription.state`  | string | The state of the subscription. | `Registered` |
