tooling/secret-sync/README.md, before:

## Secret sync flow

## General flow

Secrets are encrypted using the public part of RSA. We can generate RSA Key Pair by creating a key in Azure Key Vault. 

For this we'd have to do:

 * Create an RSA key in Key Vault (target key vault for secret)
 * Download the Public key and store in this repo
 * Use `encrypt.sh` to encrypt a secret using this key
 * In target environment use `decrypt.sh` to decrypt this secret and store it in the target key vault

![overview](overview.png)


## Planned Pipeline

There should be a pipeline step to sync secrets, something like this:

```YAML
name: decrypt-secret
action: Shell
command: decrypt.sh ./data/secrets/secret.enc $KEYVAULT $PRIVATEKEYSECRET
variables:
    - name: SECRETS
    configRef: secretsSync.secrets
    - name: KEYVAULT
    configRef: secretsSync.keyvault
    - name: PRIVATEKEYSECRET
    configRef: secretsSync.privateKeySecret
```

The configRef contains an array of secret names, i.e.: `quay-pull.enc`. The script will look for thee encrypted content under `data/secrets/$region-short` and will write these content to the key vault, using the same name as the secret name. This requires the extension `.enc` in the file, the filename without suffix is used as key name for the secret to create.

Commit message:

Adding documentation and enhancing scripts

tooling/secret-sync/README.md, after:

# Secret sync scripts

see [Secret Syncronization](../../docs/secret-sync.md) for higher level information

## encrypt.sh

Used to encrypt secrets with a single output:

`echo content | encrypt.sh rsa-public.pem outputFile`

To encrypt a secret with all available keys, run:
`echo content | encrypt.sh outputFile`
This will encrypt the secret with all available keys. The `outputFile` should be a base name, it will store the secret using this name in each folder for all key vaults under `data/encryptedsecrets`

Optional: set `$DATADIRPREFIX`, path to read/store data from/to defaults to: dev-infrastructure/data

## decrypt.sh

Use this script to decrypt a secret using a key stored in Key Vault:
`decrypt.sh file outputSecret key-vault privateKeySecret`

- file: encrypted file
- outputSecret: secret to write decrypted secret to
- key-vault: keyvault containing the key and store decrypted secret to
- privateKeySecret: keyname used to decrypt 

## decrypt-all.sh

Script that iterates over a folder in `data/encryptedsecrets` and used `decrypt.sh` to decrypt it.
