acm/README.md, before:

# Multicluster-Engine and Policy installation

This folder contains helm charts and automation to managed helm charts for the ACM components `MCE` and `policy`.

Installation and configuration are split into two individual helm charts

## multicluster-engine

This helm chart installs the MCE operator. The chart is autogenerated from an OLM release-bundle of MCE by running `make helm-chart`. The resulting chart is then commited into the repository.

To update MCE, change the `MCE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE_IMAGE` variable in the Makefile. If you are testing pre-releases from the `quay.io/acm-d` organization, make sure the `REGISTRY` env var in the Makefile is set to `${ARO_HCP_IMAGE_ACR}.azurecr.io/acm-d-mce`. For production releases set it to `${ARO_HCP_IMAGE_ACR}.azurecr.io` instead.

## multicluster-engine-config

This helm chart configures MCE and installs the `policy` component on top of it. The subchart for `policy` is imported into this repo by running `make helm-chart`. It can be found [in the ACM upstream Github org](https://github.com/stolostron/mce-install-kube) and is maintained by the ACM team.

Updating `policy` needs to be done with care for now, since the content of the helm chart repo is not tagged. We are working on it.

Commit message:

ACM 2.12 / MCE 2.7 production release (#848)
MCE + policy prod release

Signed-off-by: Gerd Oberlechner <goberlec@redhat.com>

acm/README.md, after:

# Multicluster-Engine and Policy installation

This folder contains helm charts and automation to managed helm charts for the ACM components `MCE` and `policy`.

## Structure

Installation and configuration are split into two individual helm charts

### multicluster-engine

This helm chart installs the MCE operator. The chart is autogenerated from an OLM release-bundle of MCE by running `make helm-chart`. The resulting chart is then commited into the repository.

To update MCE, change the `MCE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE_IMAGE` variable in the Makefile. If you are testing pre-releases from the `quay.io/acm-d` organization, make sure the `REGISTRY` env var in the Makefile is set to `${ARO_HCP_IMAGE_ACR}.azurecr.io/acm-d-mce`. For production releases set it to `${ARO_HCP_IMAGE_ACR}.azurecr.io` instead.

### multicluster-engine-config

This helm chart configures MCE and installs the `policy` component on top of it. The subchart for `policy` is imported into this repo by running `make helm-chart`. It can be found [in the ACM upstream Github org](https://github.com/stolostron/mce-install-kube) and is maintained by the ACM team.

Updating `policy` needs to be done with care for now, since the content of the helm chart repo is not tagged. We are working on it.

## Updating charts

To update the `multicluster-engine` chart, lookup the desired install MCE OLM bundle on [https://catalog.redhat.com](https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/multicluster-engine/mce-operator-bundle/6160406290fb938ecf6009c6) and update the `MCE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE_IMAGE` variable in `Makefile`.

To update the `multicluster-engine-config/policy` subchart, update the `POLICY_HELM_REPO_BRANCH` variable in the `Makefile` for the desired release.

Run `make helm-chart` to update all charts. Review and commit all changes to the `deploy/helm` directory.
